---
title: 01 Classes and Objects
description:
toc: true
authors: []
date: 2021-05-31T20:15:04-07:00
lastmod: 2021-05-31T20:15:04-07:00
draft: false
weight: 1
series: 
---
## Key Concepts
*object, class, instance, method, signature, parameter, type, state, source code, return value, compiler*

- Java objects model objects from a problem domain.
- Objects are created from classes. The class describes the kind of object; the objects represent individual instances of the class
- We can communicate with objects by invoking methods on them. Objects usually do something if we invoke a method.
- Methods can have parameters to provide additional information for a task.
-  The method name and the parameter types of a method are called its signature. They provide the information needed to invoke that method.
-  Parameters have types. The type defines what kinds of values a parameter can take.
-  Multiple instances. Many similar objects can be created from a single class.
-  Objects have state. The state is represented by storing values in fields.
-  Method calling. Objects can communicate by calling each other’s methods.
-  The source code of a class determines the structure and behavior (the fields and methods) of each of the objects of that class.
-  Methods may return information about an object via a return value.


## Todo
- Read [Introduction to objects](https://wou.edu/las/cs/csclasses/JavaTutorial/Notes/chap25/ch25_1.html). Don't worry if you are not able to understand all the source code at this point
- Watch
{{<youtube CPUaTT0Xoo4>}}
{{<youtube hjaFFdpbGoQ>}}
{{<youtube inZ1pamustg>}}

## Practice
<orbit-reviewarea>
      <orbit-prompt
        question="What do objects store data in?"
        answer="Fields"
      ></orbit-prompt>
      <orbit-prompt
        question="If a class is like a blue print of a house then an obect is like a ..."
        answer="House"
      ></orbit-prompt>
</orbit-reviewarea>

### Exercise 1.18 
Challenge exercise (This means that this exercise might not be solved quickly. We do not expect everyone to be able to solve this at the moment. If you do, great. If you don’t, then don’t worry. Things will become clearer as you read on. Come back to this exercise later.) Add a sunset to the single-sun version of Picture. That is, make the sun go down slowly. Remember: The circle has a method slowMoveVertical that you can use to do this.

### Exercise 1.19 
Challenge exercise If you added your sunset to the end of the draw method (so that the sun goes down automatically when the picture is drawn), change this now. We now want the sunset in a separate method, so that we can call draw and see the picture with the sun up, and then call sunset (a separate method!) to make the sun go down.

### Exercise 1.20 
Challenge exercise Make a person walk up to the house after the sunset.

