---
title: 03 Object interactions
description:
toc: true
authors: []
date: 2021-05-25T11:27:22-07:00
lastmod: 2021-05-25T11:27:22-07:00
draft: false
weight: 1
series:
---

 ## Key Concepts
**abstraction, modularization, divide and conquer, class diagram, object diagram, object reference, overloading, internal method call, external method call, dot notation, debugger, breakpoint**

- abstraction is the ability to ignore details of parts, to focus attention on a higher level of a problem.
- Modularization is the process of dividing a whole into well-defined parts that can be built and examined separately, and that interact in well-defined ways.
- Classes define types. A class name can be used as the type for a variable. Variables that have a class as their type can store objects of that class
- The class diagram shows the classes of an application and the relationships between them. It gives information about the source code and presents the static view of a program.
- The object diagram shows the objects and their relationships at one moment in time during the execution of an application. It gives information about objects at runtime and presents the dynamic view of a program.
- Object references. Variables of object types store references to objects.
- The primitive types in ,aXa are the nonobject types. Types such as int, boolean, char, double, and long are the most common primitive types. Primitive types have no methods.
- Object creation. Objects can create other objects, using the new operator.
- Overloading. A class may contain more than one constructor, or more than one method of the same name, as long as each has a distinctive set of parameter types.
- Methods can call other methods of the same class as part of their implementation. This is called an internal method call.
- Methods can call methods of other objects using dot notation. This is called an external method call.
- A debugger is a software tool that helps in examining how an application executes. It can be used to find bugs.


## Todo
### Watch
{{<youtube 72DsdvA80yo >}}
{{<youtube AbEVfqG-sZc >}}
{{<youtube 1p5Uf7LDoO0>}}

### Quiz
- [Object references](https://wou.edu/las/cs/csclasses/JavaTutorial/Notes/chap26/chap26quiz.html)
- [Fill in the blanks](https://wou.edu/las/cs/csclasses/JavaTutorial/Notes/chap27/fillBlankCh27.html)

- 
