---
title: 04 Grouping objects
description:
toc: true
authors: []
date: 2021-06-01T13:32:19-07:00
lastmod: 2021-06-01T13:32:19-07:00
draft: false
weight: 1
---


## Key Concepts
*collection, iterator, for-each loop, while loop, index, import statement, library, package, anonymous object, definite iteration, indefinite iteration*

- Collection A collection object can store an arbitrary number of other objects.
- A loop can be used to execute a block of statements repeatedly without having to write them multiple times.
- An iterator is an object that provides functionality to iterate over all elements of a collection.
- The Java reserved word null is used to mean “no object” when an object variable is not currently referring to a particular object. A field that has not explicitly been initialized will contain the value null by default.
- 

## Todo
### Watch
{{<youtube _75i6SCwVPM>}}
{{<youtube 6-A1g2liBh4>}}
{{<youtube dcK1pxon7zM>}}
### Quiz
- [Quiz: loops and while](https://wou.edu/las/cs/csclasses/JavaTutorial/Notes/chap15/fillBlankCh15.html)
- [Quiz: arrays and iterators](https://wou.edu/las/cs/csclasses/JavaTutorial/Notes/chap54/chap54quiz.html)


## Practice


### Exercise 4.43 
This and the following exercises present a challenge because they involve using some things that we have not covered explicitly. They involve adding something that most music players have: a “shuffle,” or “random-play,” feature.

The java.util package contains the Random class whose nextInt method will generate a positive random integer within a limited range. Write a method in the MusicOrganizer class to select a single random track from its list and play it.

Hint: You will need to import Random and create a Random object, either directly in the new method, or in the constructor and stored in a field. You will need to find the API documentation for the Random class and check its methods to choose the correct version of nextInt. Alternatively, we cover the Random class in Chapter 6.

## Exercise 4.44 Consider how you might play multiple tracks in a random order. Would you want to make sure that all tracks are played equally or prefer favorite tracks? How might a “play count” field in the Track class help with this task? Discuss the various options.

## Exercise 4.45 
Write a method to play every track in the track list exactly once, in random order.

Hint: One way to do this would be to shuffle the order of the tracks in the listor, perhaps better, a copy of the list—and then play through from start to finish. Another way would be to make a copy of the list and then repeatedly choose a random track from the list, play it, and remove it from the list until the list is empty. Try to implement one of these approaches. If you try the first, how easy is it to shuffle the list so that it is genuinely in a new random order? Are there any library methods that could help with this?

### Exercise 4.86 C
Rewrite the findFirst method in the MusicOrganizer class from music-organizer-v4 by using a do-while loop rather than a while loop. Test your solution carefully. Try searches that will succeed and others that will fail. Try searches where the file to be found is first in the list, and also where it is last in the list.