= Answering my own Questions =
I can't tell you how many times I've treated google as some sort of 
oracle and searched things like "is reading good for you?".
I'd be embarassed to show you my history not because you would
find some shoebox of dirty magazines but rather because you would
find mortifying questions that show you how little self confidence I 
have. 

So I am going to try a new thing this year. I want to be my own google.
I want to start valueing my own ideas and have the courage to risk them
being wrong. 


== "What are the benefits of reading" ==
Firstly let me address why this is a ridiculous thing to search. 
1) Not everything you do in life has to be attached to some benefit.
2) I've already experienced the joys and benefits of reading.

But since I asked, I will answer. 

Reading is kind of like having smart people talk to you, which should
make you some degree smarter. If you have a good book your holding
(or if your like me staring at) a text that has been written,
destroyed, re-written, tweaked, debated over, rephrased, spell-cheked,
and fussed over to the point of near perfection. 
This is no small thing. How often is it in daily life that someone 
you talk to says words of such high nutritional? Whose words not only
nourish you but also are pleasing to your palat?
We live in an amazing age where great thinkers knowledge is in unlimited
abundance waiting for us to grab a bowl full. And yet what kind of food
do we usually go for? Anyway a rant on that later.

Back to the question at hand. When you read you get to step outside 
of your space and enter someone elses. Your world becomes bigger. 
You might feel inspried, challenged, upset, but you will feel something.
Your world will be slightly different after. 

Reading is knowledge and we all know 

> Knowledege is power 

So stop searching about what are the benefits of reading and 
go read something you goon!

_or listen to it on tape_

Until next time. Hopefully not too soon. 
