---
title: "iCloud Odyssey"
date: 2023-12-30T15:56:26-08:00
draft: false
---

# Hello 2024
This is the first week of my new year. (I start new year the following week
because I take the first week to review the previous year, so today
is actually the 8th of January). Before launching
into what I want to accomplish this week I want to set some larger intentions
for this year.

## Use the dev log
I created this dev log with the idea that I can keep myself on track
by journaling about what I have been working on. I hope this log keeps
me more accountable and helps me stay focused on the priority for the week.
I feel that taking the time to 

I believe writting is also a discovery process and I hope to use this space
to gain insights into my app and the development process itself. 

## Touch the code base everyday
I want my git hub activity page at the end of the year to reflect the fact
that I always made some progress on the project. That will force me to make
smaller commits and work and some feature each day. If I can show up for iOS
everyday I believe that I will improve as a developer and see consistent
progress. 

## Have a consistent schedule
My Monday - Friday hours are going to be from 8am - 11:30 on an ideal day.
Even if I get a late start I still want to shop up somewhere in this time frame.
Coding should take place during this time. I want to code
in iOS no more than 4 hours a day. I think this will prevent burnout and help
me stay focused and do high quality work. 
In the afternoon I would like to make time to work on other aspects of the 
project such as project management, graphic design, and enrichment through
reading in SuperMemo.

## Try to find a job in iOS
Getting a job as an iOS developer would allow me to learn and get paid
for something I already love doing. It takes time to find that dream job
so make sure to continually apply to jobs. Take advantage of networking
oppurtunities as they arise.

### Weekends
The weeken is the time where it might be challenging to get that hour of 
code in since I have teaching commitments in the morning. 
It might need to postpone meditation & workout & start coding shortly after
waking up. 

So the hours of coding per month would ideally work out to be about
17 hours a week, 68 a month, & 816 a year. I hope to go above this number
but I think its a great baseline goal for the year. 

## 


# Week 2 (January 8th) Goal

I want to start these logs by setting a realistic goal
for each week. So here we go.

> iCloud de-duplication is tested and working


## Monday - Wednesday
Not as focused as I had hoped but worked on something each day. Always
later than expected. Managed to get de-duplication to work so goal for the 
week was accomplished.

## Thursday
Today I want to figuer out what are the next steps for this project. I want to
set the bar very low. 

I'm very excited about using trading cards for my game. I'd like to 
start the prototyping process. 

You really just need to make one image, one template and then bring
those into a playground to experiment with the sizing. It would be a great
idea to read up on how to best resize images. I want to make sure that 
my images look good on all devices. 

I need to be knowledeable about image sizing. 


## Lost week
Unfortunately the rest of the week got away for me and I didn't make 
much progress.