= January = 
== Pop ups ==
- not evrything has to be published. you can keep it simple. write your thoughts
  directly into SM
- read book -> watch movie to make things more comprehensible.
- i dont want to want to mind map how else might i take good notes
- should we use a public database for core data?
- maybe fidget spnner can help you
- when you find yourself thinking about something else. come back to the breath
- [ ] Finish setting up budget
- [ ] Setup dropbox on your iphone as well as ynab
- [ ] how do i go up and down in this window.
- [ ] delete sometimes doesnt work in gvim
- [ ] Buy a watch to help you follow a schedule.
- really enjoyed reading that book. while reading there was a tendency to jump
  and do research online. i think you should just make extracts to see if those
  initial bursts of interest stand the test of time. delay research is the
  lesson.
 
 == 19 ==
 Feeling like I need to get back to offline mode. Meditation was short
 but good. I am going to try and spread my hour of meditation across the
 day into 3 20 minute sessions. I hope this will encourage me to always
 do the meditation and get the most out of those 20 minutes.
 
 Not a perfect day but even though I had a few set backs like a late start
as well as annoying 24 fitness drama with my membership, I felt like
I accomplished a lot. 

I have been worrying lately that I study too many different things. But
I had a thought that maybe its okay. I am not specialized right now
and thats okay. I think a broad education does a lot to create a lot of
connections in the brain. 


 
 
== 17 ==
Was on an anti vacation. On Sunday started a series Nancy Drew. Wasn't a 
very relaxing one. I felt off kilter and like I am not getting done the
most important things.
 
== 13 == 
I dont feel especially tired now but I would like to start winding down by a
short meditation. 

i tried a no schedule day today and spend a lot of time on that curric.
I think too much in proportion to my current goals. when you limit yourself
on time your forced to budget it. I think that self imposed limits make
you have to be more careful about how you spend your time. so i want
to get back to my time budget tomorrow. 



== 12 ==
Today was better but I got a rather late start. I see the consequences
now of a bad day. My motto is not to have 2 bad days in a row. I think I 
am on track for that.

I enjoyed summarizing what I read to yush. I think this is a great way for
me to review what I read and share some knowledge. 

A simple idea is to just record pop ups here as a bulleted list. At the end of
the months we can see which ones still seem interesting and chase those
as tasks.

== 11 ==
Last night went to bed pretty late. I think I need to do a meditation
or autogenic traning when I get home before doing the review. I will
strive do do this at 8pm but I will go for the first available op.

Yesterday I missed my math goal and didn't make it to the gym because
I spent too much time on the phone in the afternoon. Remember to respect
your alarms and pause when you hear them. Give your self chances
during the day to catch up with yourself. 




== 10 ==
Yesterday Yush & I got into an argument. I was a big one. 
I felt accused for doing wrong that I felt I had not done. This
made me feel threatened. I tried to explain myself but felt
I was not being heard which added to my sense of indignation. 
Then I lashed out at yush and did something terrible. I threw
some water on her paint by numbers work. This was a childish 
act of me clamoring to get her attention. I regretted what I had done
and got whatever water I could off the painting. Luckily I think the 
painting is going to be okay. But it was a red flag moment for me. 
I think it is important to act non-aggressively in an argument. 
There are times when two people will never agree on a topic. I already
knew we wouldn't agree when I was down stairs. At that point the wise
move would have been to pause and make my way outside. I need
to have more respect for other people's property. 

Today I am feeling emotionally hungover. I'd like to apologize
and come up with a bomb diffuse plan for the next time I feel angry
like that or am in an argument. 

- [[rage]]

Also yesterday I didn't stick to a schedule and we went out for lunch. 
That didn't work. 



== 9 ==
Today's meditation was better than yesterday's. I had 
some thoughts along the line's of 'i will never be able to do this'.
But I responded by saying how unhelpful that thought is. It is much
more useful to just try and not complain about how hard what your doing
is. I think that voice goes way back. 

My intention I want to carry with me is to stay focused on the current
task and be aware of times when I want to switch to another task. If
you want to switch pause first. While doing the task set aside
all thoughts not related to the task. Take breaks. When taking breaks
be fully devoted to the break.

Today I am getting a late start on iOS because I'd like to get caught
up an Hanzi. Every morning I want to have the habit of finishing all
the Hanzi so that they are done for the day.

Well I am caught up on hanzi but its pretty late now and at one point
I got distracted.

I been off the rails this break. Going to go do my hour of code.
Just bought AOPS vol 1 & 2 which should keep me busy for a while. 
I like the approach of these books that they don't dwell to long on
a single topic. This might be perfect for me since if i am being 
honest I feel tired out with my current learning path. 

not as focused today. had a late dinner. happy about the math I did.
Getting to bed an hour late then I should. Going to still get up at 5 am.





== Monday, 8 ==
Today feels like the first day of new year because I spent all last week
reviewing. I was up at 5am today and found that my morning routine
is greatly simplified by not going to the gym and instead working out
in the garage while studying Chinese. This will save me some time in 
the morning, alllow me to wake up the system, and spend more time 
with Yush (Now i feel better about going to the gym at night to do
restistance training. 

Meditation this morning was pretty unfocused. I did 10,7,5,3,2,1 from
method 1 followeD by the guided meditation. 
I have been using this 

https://melted-zebra-c2c.notion.site/Morning-Chanting-Meditation-75de4b531e304fddbaf986efc0577080?pvs=4

notion page to remind me to do the chanting. I think even though 
today I was pretty distracted by thoughts about a bunch of different tasks
I still feel encrougared just by the fact that I am at an hour a day now
and that I showed up on time.

Today I have my first yoga class. I believe that even just 1 yoga class
a week can improve my flexibility this year. So I will be their at 10:30

Before starting iOS i feel like i should spend some time doing tasks. 
I don't want to overdoe it so I will stop at 8am.

Unpleaseant morning with credit Karma. they don't have the features they
claim to have. 

i can just input transactions from my ipad to ynab

1pm: I just read some more of "The worlds I see" and I felt really good
while reading. I was touched by the passage about her mother sticking
up for her. I think she is a great example of what good parenting
can do for a Child. She was encouraged to persue her interests. 
She was given great examples. 

Now I am feeling like I want to read about iOS and then program for a bit
Today is turning to be way more flux then I expected but I feel good.

I feel happy in knowing that I have many things to do today and 
I am excited about all of them. 


== 6 ==
Spend longer then I should have listening to the Michelle Obama's
"Becoming". Made me feel motivated to work hard in my own life.

Going to do brief mediation before the review.

The review brought up a lot of things. I ended up not doing any
of the modules and focused on reflecting on where my ADHD has cause
problems in the past. I had a near 2 hour conversation with Lindsay.
It felt great to be understood. She had some really interesting advice
for me and I came away feeling tired but hopeful. One of her tips was 
to use somatic exercise when feeling stressed. That was a new word for me.

She also had interesting advice about personifying one part of the mind
as a gentle, caring parent, that would talk to their inner child at times
when the inner child is wanting to act up. She talked about how kids 
get out of their beds at night and want to have a glass of milk, go to the
bathroom, or some other array of silly excuses, to avoid having to 
wind down and go to bed.

How it takes time each day to wind down and its better to begin the process
early. 

Most of what she said were things I already knew but it helped to be
reminded of them and hear them offered to me in a different way. 
I sometimes don't value my own ideas and need to hear them from
someone else before I am willing to believe them.

It was a really full day today despite not doing a lot of things. I got a lot
out of my reading. 

Yush and I discussed her starting a game where she could explore her
Grandma's old house. I'm excited to be able to support her in this goal.
The best part is that she will be the leader of this project since it is her
memories after all. I feel like I have been able to contribute a few ideas
without being overbearing. I am proud of myself for that. 

Refactored my goals today. The new list is this

1. Follow the path 
2. Live Healthy 
3. Be iOS Developer 
4. Fluent Chinese 
5. Do math 
6. Play the piano 
7. Read 
8. Financial Awarenes

I hope I spelled everything right. I'm finding all this writting actually
therapeautic.

== 5 ==
Got up at 5:30 today. Feeling a bit tired but am hoping to get a lot done 
today. Biggest thing is to finish up doing my yearly review. As I am reviewing
I have a bad habit of doing other things and getting distracted. So when
I am reviewing I want to focus all my attention on the review.

- [X] Complete yearly review.

== 4 ==
Let's review and focus only on reviewing and nothing else. 
Lost track of time at night time. Was watching that show about Candy Candy.
It like a cinderella story with Ghosts, 3 prince charmings and a horse house.
Going to go out to my room and listen to an audio tape and fall asleep.

== 3 ==
Morning meditation consisted of a talk and chanting. It was not very
focused. I want to experiment with a silent meditation after chanting.

Getting sort of unfocused with this wiki. I think you should tone it
down. I'm supposed to be reviewing right now and am instead messing around
in viw wiki.

Now it's 8pm and I am proud to be checking in. I am pretty tired but I want to
relax and read for an hour. 

== 2 ==
Today I was interupted mid day by an unexpected visit by my dad
& Andy. It was strange that he visited because I just had a dream
about him and Tammy last night.

Andy told me lots of interesting stories. My favorite was about
his wedding day. Apparently his mother in law decided to renew
her vows at the wedding. So they basically had two back to back
weddings.
I might enroll in a Chinese class in S.F. My hope is that doing so will motivate me to study more and give me a clear path to doing so.
It's easy for me to get distracted and so I want to give myself
motivation to stay with one thing.

== 1 ==
Hey Wiki!

[[tuesday]]
